

OVERVIEW
--------

The Makefile in this directory needs four variables defined in
order to (re)install the GOOE fonts and include files in the
correct places: MFDIR, TFMDIR, TEXINPUTS, and PKFONTS.  Normally,
the 'perl Makefile.PL' step in the directory above this directory
creates the Makefile in this directory and fills in the correct
values for these variables.  This file is here to help in case
something goes wrong.

If something goes wrong, you may either edit the Makefile to fix
the variable names and any other problems you think need fixing
(but be aware that if you run 'perl Makefile.PL' in the directory
above again, it will write over tex/Makefile, destroying your
changes), or you can do the install by hand, ignoring
tex/Makefile.  This file assumes you will do it by hand, but the
instructions and information are applicable to changing the
Makefile too.

The variables are:

MFDIR: path to where the Metafont sources should be installed.

TFMDIR: path to where the .tfm (font metrics) files should be
installed.

TEXINPUTS: path to where the TeX include files should be
installed

PKFONTS: 0 or more glob patterns for anywhere that font cache
(go*pk) files might have been built from previous installs of
sgf2tex/sgf2dg.  If this is a first-time installation of sgf2dg,
there will be no cached fonts, and PKFONTS should be empty.  Note
that PKFONTS will be used like this:

    rm -f $(PKFONTS)

so it must contain file globs (like '/path/to/cache_dir/go*pk')
or file names to work correctly.  It can contain several
globs/names if you find go*pk files scattered around in different
places.

Older versions of sgf2tex required additional variables TEXHASH,
MANDIR and BINDIR.  MANDIR and BINDIR are now handled by the
top-level Makefile and are not used here.  TEXHASH is now handled
by trying both 'texhash' and 'MakeTeXls-R' - one or both will
probably fail, but if either one is available, it will work
correctly.


MANUAL INSTALL (Unix - brief)
---------------------

See INSTALLATION DETAILS below for more details. Briefly, here is
the procedure on UNIX machines. You may automate this process to
some extent by using the Makefile (see MAKE INSTALL below).

Assuming you have TeX and perl already installed, and that you
are currently in the sgf2dg/tex directory created from
extracting the sgf2dg package:

1. Running as root, copy the *.mf files into your metafont search
path. (See SEARCH PATHS, below.) Make sure they are publicly
readable.

2. Copy the *.tfm files into your TeX metric file (tfm) search
path.  Make sure they are publically readable. Consult SEARCH
PATHS for more details.

3. (Optional) Copy gooemacs.tex and gotcmacs.tex into your TeX
input search path. You may omit this step if you prefer to keep a
copy of these files in your working directory whenever you are
using sgf2dg, but copying them to the TeX input search path
allows you to use sgf2dg from any subdirectory.

4. If your TeX distribution is TeTeX, run texhash. If you have
the web2c distribution, run MakeTeXls-R. Other distributions such
as NTEX do not require this step.

INSTALLATION DETAILS (Unix)
---------------------------

On a UNIX TeX distribution, which will typically use Karl Berry's
kpathsea library, the following instructions should work.
Download the file Games-Go-Sgf2Dg-XXX.tar.gz, where XXX is the
latest revision.  We will use revision 4.190 for this example.

Extract the sources with

   $ tar xzvf Games-Go-Sgf2Dg-4.190.tar.gz

if you have gnu tar, or

   $ gunzip Games-Go-Sgf2Dg-4.190.tar.gz 
   $ tar xvf Games-Go-Sgf2Dg-4.190.tar.gz

otherwise. Here $ represents your UNIX command prompt. It may be
different on your system.

This will build a subdirectory of your current directory called
Games-Go-Sgf2Dg-4.190.  cd to that directory. Then

    $ tex manual

should build manual.dvi. In order to print or preview it, you
need to install the Metafont sources (.mf) and metric (.tfm)
files into your TeX source tree, as we will explain. You must
have superuser privileges to do this installation, so log on as
root.

You need to find where, on your system, Metafont source files
(with the .mf suffix) are kept. This is the default path for the
MFINPUTS environment variable, and should be listed on the mf(1)
man page. On the other hand we've seen wrong directories listed
on man pages, so in the next section, we will give some pointers
for finding the Metafont search path.

Next, you will need to know the TeX search path for .tfm files.
(Again, consult the following section if you have trouble
obtaining this information.) Copy the .tfm files to a directory
in the search path for .tfm files. Make sure the read permissions
are public.

You want TeX to be able to find the file gooemacs.tex. So you
need a copy of this file in a directory in the tex search path.
You may copy this file into the default TeX search path.
Alternatively, you may specify a search path using the TEXINPUTS
environment variable, or you may simply keep a copy of this file
in whatever directory you choose to work.

IMPORTANT: Some TeX distributions have a utility for updating a
search path database. This utility may be called texhash (in the
teTeX distribution) or MakeTeXls-R (in the Web2c distribution).
If you have this utility, you must run it. The NTEX distribution
has no such utility, so if you are using NTEX this step may be
omitted.

The final step in installation is to copy sgf2dg and any
converter plugins (Dg2TeX.pm, etc) into /usr/local/bin with
public read and execute permissions. You may also build the
utility sgfsplit, for which see below under Variations, by typing
make at the command line. This utility may also be copied into
/usr/local/bin.

Type:

    $ tex manual

to build the file manual.dvi. Then preview or print it. The first
time you do, MakeTeXPK should invoke Metafont to build .gf and
.pk font files. The second time you print or preview the
document, these files will already exist, so Metafont will not be
invoked the second time.


SEARCH PATHS (Unix)
-------------------

In the TeX installation as described above, you need to know
where Metafont source files and TeX .tfm files are kept on your
system.  In case you have trouble obtaining this information,
here are some pointers. We begin with the search path for
Metafont source files, which have the suffix .mf.

FIRST METHOD:

If kpsewhich is installed as part of your TeX distribution, you
can use it to query TeX variables.  Note that the top-level
Makefile.PL attempts to use kpsewhich to determine the variables.
If you are reading this because the top-level 'perl Makefile.PL'
failed to find the correct variables, you may not have much luck
with this method either.

To query kpsewhich for the TEXINPUTS variable for example:

    $ kpsewhich --expand-braces `kpsewhich --expand-var \\$TEXINPUTS`

NOTE: the quotes are back-ticks.  This causes kpsewhich to
execute with the --expand-var option and the TeX variable name,
then the result is passed to a second invocation of kpsewhich to
expand the braces.  NOTE also: the $ in front of TEXINPUTS must be
escaped from the shell.  This requires two back-slashes (in bash)
because it's inside the back-tick quotes.  Different command
shells may require modifications to the way kpsewhich is invoked.

SECOND METHOD:

Read the man page for mf(1). The default value of MFINPUTS is the
search path for these fonts. This information should be on the
man page. On the other hand, it is possible that the information
on the man page may be missing or wrong. So we give two other
methods of finding the Metafont search path.

THIRD METHOD:

Find out where the Metafont (mf) executable file is:

  $ which mf
  usr/local/bin/mf    (for example)

Apply strings to the Metafont executable:

  $ strings /usr/local/bin/mf

Scan this output for MFINPUTS. The line following this keyword
will be the default search path for Metafont. According to the
kpathsea conventions, // stands for ``all subdirectories.'' Thus
the search path

.:/usr/local/share/texmf/metafont//:{/usr/local/share/texmf/fonts,/var/tex/fonts}//source//

consists of the current directory, all subdirectories of
/usr/local/share/texmf/metafont, and all subdirectories of
/usr/local/share/texmf/fonts or /var/tex/fonts containing a
subdirectory called source.

FOURTH METHOD:

The command

    find / -print 2>/dev/null|grep "\.mf\$"

will return a list of files with the suffix .mf on your system.
Most of these will be subdirectories of some top directory.
Typically metafont, or more precisely the program MakeTeXPK
which invokes metafont, will be able to find .mf files which are
contained in any subdirectory of this, or (as we saw above---see
SECOND METHOD) depending on the kpathsea search path, the
search may be restricted to subdirectories of some fixed top
directory whose path names contain an intermediate directory with
a name such as source or src. 

Next repeat this process with the .tfm files. Just as with the
Metafont sources, you can learn the search path for these by
reading the man page for xdvi(1), or by scanning the output of
strings /usr/local/bin/xdvi or /usr/local/bin/dvips for TFMFONTS,
or by studying the output of:

   find / -print 2>/dev/null|grep "\.tfm\$"

EXAMPLE: On a system running the web2c distribution, we find that
.mf files are kept in subdirectories of
/usr/local/share/texmf/fonts/source/. The actual default value of
MFINPUTS, found by scanning the output of strings
/usr/local/bin/mf is

.:/usr/local/share/texmf/metafont//:{/usr/local/share/texmf/fonts,/var/tex/fonts}//source//

(This could be in different directory on another machine.) We
copy the .mf files to

     /usr/local/share/texmf/fonts/source/public/misc/ 

which seems a good directory in this search path. We copy the
.tfm files to:

    /usr/local/share/texmf/fonts/tfm/public/misc/

After this, we run MakeTeXls-R.

